WIP - add tab and completion docs (#7839)
MicrosoftDocs/PowerShell-Docs: reference/7.1/Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_Tab_Expansion.md

---
ms.date: 07/22/2021
description: Explains how to use the Tab Expansion feature in PowerShell.
Locale: en-US
online version: https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_tab_expansion?view=powershell-7.1&WT.mc_id=ps-gethelp
schema: 2.0.0
title: About tab expansion
---
# about_Tab_Expansion

## Short description

> Command-line shells often provide a way to complete the names of long files or
> commands automatically, speeding up command entry and providing hints.
> PowerShell allows you to fill in filenames and cmdlet names by pressing the
> <kbd>Tab</kbd> key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PowerShell provides completions on input to provide hints, enable discovery and speed up input entry.
Command names, parameter names, argument values and file paths can all be completed by pressing the <kbd>Tab</kbd> key.
```

> interpreted as attempts to complete a word. If you copy and paste command
> examples into a PowerShell console, make sure that the sample does not
> contain tabs; if it does, the results will be unpredictable and will almost
> certainly not be what you intended.

## File and cmdlet name completion

To fill in a filename or path from the available choices automatically, type
part of the name and press the <kbd>Tab</kbd> key. PowerShell will
automatically expand the name to the first match that it finds. Pressing the
<kbd>Tab</kbd> key repeatedly will cycle through all of the available choices.

The tab expansion of cmdlet names is slightly different. To use tab expansion
on a cmdlet name, type the entire first part of the name (the verb) and the
hyphen that follows it. You can fill in more of the name for a partial match.
For example, if you type `get-co` and then press the <kbd>Tab</kbd> key,
PowerShell will automatically expand this to the `Get-Command` cmdlet (notice
that it also changes the case of letters to their standard form). If you press
<kbd>Tab</kbd> key again, PowerShell replaces this with the only other matching

> cmdlet name, `Get-Content`.

Reviewer: This depends entirely on the PSReadLine setting. If you set `Set-PSReadLineKeyHandler -Key Tab -Function MenuComplete` you'll see an entirely different behaviour. But this is important to note because it's a very common preference (it's my default everywhere).

It's also worth noting that PSReadLine's completion behaviour is different between Windows and *nix. On Windows it will cycle through full completions, on *nix it will complete to the longest common prefix.

Author: Added note

> [!NOTE]
> As of PowerShell 7.0, <kbd>Tab</kbd> will also expand abbreviated cmdlets and
> functions. For example, `i-psdf<tab>` returns `Import-PowerShellDataFile`.

Tab completion also works to resolve PowerShell keywords and native executables.

You can use tab expansion repeatedly on the same line. For example, you can use
tab expansion on the name of the `Get-Content` cmdlet by entering:

### Examples

```
PS> Get-Con<Tab>
```

When you press the <kbd>Tab</kbd> key, the command expands to:

```
PS> Get-Content
```

You can then partially specify the path to the Active Setup log file and use
tab expansion again:

```
PS> Get-Content c:\windows\acts<Tab>
```

When you press the <kbd>Tab</kbd> key, the command expands to:

```
PS> Get-Content C:\windows\actsetup.log
```

PowerShell also has a menu completion feature that is triggered using
<kbd>Ctrl</kbd>-<kbd>Space</kbd>.

```
PS> fore<Ctrl-Space>
```

When you press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>-<kbd>Space</kbd>, PowerShell present the full
list of matching value as a menu:

```
PS> foreach
foreach         ForEach-Object  foreach.cmd
```

> In this example the string 'fore' is matched to `foreach` (PowerShell keyword),

Reviewer: Actually PowerShell doesn't offer keyword completions. The first result here is the `foreach` alias of `ForEach-Object`:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7009879/127024330-5fa4b509-c169-4d20-9c71-42a525149579.png)

Author: Oh, good to know.

Author: Fixed
